# CSE 163 - Data Programming - Final Project


Across the United States, the low-income suffer from food insecurity, which is characterized by being unable to access healthy, nutritious food in a convenient way. In this project, we would like to visualize the various indicators for food insecurity on a map in order to understand if there are any underlying spatial components to the issue i.e. is food insecurity concentrated in certain areas? Are there certain indicators of food insecurity that vary more dramatically than others?

Once we have established what food insecurity in the US looks like in question 1, we want to explore the larger question of the cost burden of poverty - specifically, does the food insecurity that arises from poverty contribute to negative healthcare outcomes and high healthcare costs? We will attempt to answer this question by utilizing additional data visualizations that will help illustrate whether high instances of food insecurity contribute to higher healthcare costs across the 50 states. 

Datasets:
1.	United States food environment by county.  This is a very comprehensive dataset containing information regarding participation rates in nutrition assistance programs, access to food (stores, restaurants, farms, etc.), health and socioeconomic factors, as well as information regarding food pricing and general food insecurity rates. https://www.ers.usda.gov/data-products/food-environment-atlas/data-access-and-documentation-downloads/
2.	Geometry Data provided by U.S. Department of Commerce, U.S. Census Bureau, Geography Division via https://databasin.org/datasets/15aad86497a24d468a16629c097dab06
3.	Health Expenditures by State of Residence, 1991-2014: Health Accounts by State of residence present aggregate and per capita estimates of health care spending by type of establishment delivering care (hospitals, physicians and clinics, nursing homes, etc.) and for medical products (prescription drugs, over-the-counter medicines and sundries and durable medical products such as eyeglasses and hearing aids) purchased in retail outlets. This is the data we will rely on to explore/establish the relationship between food insecurity and negative health outcomes https://www.cms.gov/Research-Statistics-Data-and-Systems/Statistics-Trends-and-Reports/NationalHealthExpendData/NationalHealthAccountsStateHealthAccountsResidence.html
4.	National Obesity by State: National Obesity Percentages by State. Obesity -  The percent of the state population that is considered obese from the 2015 CDC BRFSS Survey.
https://catalog.data.gov/dataset/national-obesity-by-state-b181b
